# World Overview

The world is split between 3 major kingdoms in a time of relative peace. The southern kingdom is more culturally isolated than the northern kingdoms, who trade and integrate culturally and technologically. The borders between kingdoms are much decided by geological difficulties like mountains, rivers, lowland marshes, deserts, etc. However, some scars from previous conflict remain. Cultists originally dedicated to war released powers that they could not fully control and our still lingering and have been given dominion in certain parts of the world. In the wilderness, pockets of land occupied by untamed barbarism and displaced tribes.

Northern maps of the southern kingdom are often outdated and while the relationship with the southern kingdom is not hostile, it is not welcoming. They are resistant to foreigners and when ambassadors do return, an unsatisfying amount of knowledge about the secrets of the south are revealed. There are rumors of strange religious practices, ancient magics, rituals, and cultic fanaticism. It is known, however, that Elvish ancestral roots typically stem from the south and are the dominant demographic in the southern kingdom. Their history far predates that of humanity and other humanoid races. Humans are most popular in the northern kingdoms, while other races are distributed less generously, are still a meaningful contribution to the civilized populations. Small pockets of peoples that are ancestrally from other planes of existence are present (aarokokra, undead, and romaing elementals) in much smaller numbers.

The most recent event that shaped the world geographically happened 83 years ago and is colloquially known as the *foul immigration*. The Ravenqueen, the mysterious ruler of the Shadowfell (a dark and quiet plane of existence that mirror's the material plane), was in conflict with undead hoards and drove them out and in an act of desperation, those foul populations sought refuge in the material plane (Connections to the shadowfell are found in the deepest, darkest places of the material plane and the connection to the shadowfell is so strong one can cross over). The undead spewed forth in incredible numbers overwhelming anything that stood in its wake. The kingdoms were unprepared to deal with such a catastrophe and civilizations near the outpouring were hysteric and believed that they were experiencing an apocalyptic event. It may well have been, had it not been for the interference of a god named Kelemvor, who divinely created a barrier, locking the hoards of undead behind a magical prison where nothing comes in, and nothing goes out.

This geographical disturbance happened about 70 miles south, in a more temperate zone than our starting city of Slygarten

# Slygarten

Slygarten rests in a semi-arid climate and farmers outside typically grow olives, figs, grapes, and herbs that grow well given the scarcity of rainfall. Outside of the farmable land exist roaming tribes that hunt and are the occasional nuisance to farmers. Despite the relative harshness compared to other northern kingdoms, the city itself is quite wealthy and attracts some of the greatest minds in the world.

The local university specializes in and has made great strides in the fields of planar studies and elemental convergence. Graduates don't go far, as they work in engineering firms and laboratories in the *Clockwork District* that create some of the worlds most useful technologies. It is not uncommon for constructs powered by heat and energy from elemental mechanisms to be found doing labor and carrying out services for local homes and businesses. These firms require a large number of materials that not only need to be imported, but raw materials often need to be refined before they're ready for production purposes. This refinement is done in factories found in the *Forgeheart* district.

The city is currently ruled by a Mayor named Theodore Blackburn and his appointed counce. The office is decided by way of democratic vote. Taxpaying households are issued a single vote. This method of gaining a right to vote extends to the farmlands encircling the city. The mayor's predecessor, Frederick Van Greene, served 3 terms before losing the position.

