# The Noble Construct
## By Ulten Gilarh

Notes adorn this text’s cover reading: "juvenile and insufferable, without any new knowledge. I must sever ties with Gilarh if he still lives"

The accompanying city guard stands back and merely watches as the constabular golem arrests the brigandry, sparing him any danger! The courting couple eat cheese on their romantic date at the canal as the gondola oarsman rows, his torso strong, his body the boat itself! Revelry and festivity abound as the aqueduct is erected in one day and a half as the steadfast workers need no rest nor sustenance! A world of possibility awaits, should we only care to meet it and shake its iron hand. Come dear reader! Here we will discuss the social implications of our world, should we overcome the known problems of the arcane art of golemancy today.

Erathacist Theoretical Arcana vol.24: The Practical Application of Divine Interpretation
Foreword by Diviner-Third-Class Blattisk Ru-Harra

When the gods strode away in their mighty steps across the world and left only their tracks for us in their wake to puzzle over, we their children were met with certain panic in the danger that followed: heed their words and teachings, or perish alone in a world shaken by our (and their) quarrels. How our ancestors must have quaked then, and how we press ever onward now. Now, with the arcane science gifted by Erathis, we are left always to wonder: In their absence, what higher knowledge of the cosmos can arcanists interpret therein? This volume looks to the myths of the creation of Mystra's stone in the tragedy of erathis and Typha-Ti'sil, and four authors discuss the question of the veracity of certain claims that enchanters today struggle with: what if anything, can the enchanter glean from stories of Mystra, perhaps the first enchantress?

# Psionics and its Incidence
## By Umbra il’Bar

What can the old masters of the anatomy of the common peoples of the world tell us of the phenomenon known as Pscionics? The answer, despite the establishment’s stuffy insistence in sticking with their old-guard doctrinaire position - is nothing. Unlike Arcane magic which can be studied and practiced, those sorcerrous infusions and genealogies that arise at birth, and divine magics of worship or godly investment, the small number of Psionicists observed at the time of publication seem to not be engaging with commonly understood forms of manipulating the weave, assuming they do at all. Whether the Psion deploys magic at all is still up for debate, but it is certain that this manipulation of strange fields arises out of one place and one place only: the mind. This text looks to the canon of anatomy of the brains of Elven, Dwarven, Human, and Gnomish subjects to understand what questions they fail to answer, to ultimately better understand how the Psionic phenomenon arises.

Translated Triton Logosyllabic Found on Titanoyster Shell, Estimated Early Post-Abandonment. Thought to be Early Methods of Summoning Certain Fire Elementals
The Ethddaran [Mystic? Practitioner?] will place the [untranslatable] substance heated within the vent amidst one knuckles-depth of phosphorus before verbally invoking the Vyaruus [theorised to be translate as Weave of Mystra]

The Ethddaran will perform the hand motions and speak the rites entrusted to him by his father, to whom was entrusted through his father the words of his father's Ur’tersanara [guide? Scholar?]

With this knowledge the Ethddaran performs the [untranslatable] y’nthra [dance?] to enchant the substance-aggregate mix to conjure - (cuts off)

# Banes and Boons from the Firmaments
## Anonymous

Common knowledge is the notion that all of this prime material plane is composed of those elemental energies that have settled from a once chaotic time into the world as it is, and indeed into their own exclusive planes as well. Common, even, is the knowledge that the tracking of planar events and motions can be aided by certain orrerous and astrological studies. It should not be the shunnable offense that it is then, to suggest as I have, that the learned scholar embrace the obvious truth. Simply observe how across all cultures, whether as omen or as blessing, the shooting star or the smoldering crater found in the morning is regarded with awe, reverence, and assured insistence of great power. This notion requires, nay demands more research. We can be sure that certain star metals and other celestial materials can be possessed of great power. What else then, composed of vast and unknown powers could fall from the sky? And indeed, could it be theorised that perhaps immense wellsprings of magical power could already lay dormant having already been seeded thusly?

# Salt and Symbol: The Conjurer’s Fail-safes
## By Durissa Rour of Olkenvale

The texts known as the Black Scrolls of Ahm, the Demonomicon of Iggwilv and (as it is popularly known) the Book of Vile Darkness are, as scholars know well, the foremost authorities on demonic matters. For the techniques that trap the essence of demonkind on the material plane for whatever nefarious purpose (placing it within a weapon, idol, or jewelry-piece for example), these texts provide the unholy incantations to execute these tasks. This is true, but within their foul pages also, the discerning and unbiased arcanist must admit, are invaluable safety measures. Many a mage and clergyman have endured the unsettling dreams, wicked impulses and fouled air around these texts wherever they have popped up and been possessed (for lack of a better term) by those who would wish to learn from them for good. Though inevitably as is the text’s nature, they soon make their way in tragedy to the next owner. Sometimes for better, sometimes for worse. But it is by standing on the shoulders of these giants that we know the procedures of truename and talisman acquisition, holy circles, and more. However this begs the question - when conjuring for barter, intelligence, and utility other kinds of planar creatures, what safety measures exist, and from which scholars and texts are they derived?

# Searching for Garak Ghuron The Canny
## By Agrungad Ghuron, formerly known as Flynn Soott

Long and painful has been the process of understanding who I am. Whether city dwelling in the hearts of empires, or itinerant and left behind by the world, the half-orc folk are all too often strangers to the cultures that begat us. I myself lived half a life named by those who took me in that fateful day as I limped cold and half dead on the steps of an orphanage. Named, mind you after the particulate that clung to my wretched body before they gave me a wash. But I am older now. And perhaps more importantly, I am grown. This is a story of the ten year journey to find my father who only in hushed whispers as a boy did i overhear is the great Garak Ghuron K’aa. or Garak Ghuron the Canny in this tongue. This tractate deals personally in these matters from my own experience and forms a story; and it is a story of loss and love. It is as much a story, in scouring the world for him (may his song continue in the Vaahash) as it is about scouring that soot away and unearthing that boy that day at that orphanage. But it serves also the twofold purpose of demystifying the ritual of the Ukavor to the disinterested scholars who scratch their heads at Orcish cultures despite never truly giving them any scholarly credence. I have spent the better part of my life decoding for other tongues The Ukavor, or ‘Story-Blanket’ and if nothing else, this text exists to tell the reader that it really is not that hard. Let us begin.

# Tuning Material Components: Hyperagonal Media In The Perforation of The Planes
## By Yalkngtha Kharamandassis

The suffusing of the technician’s requisite planar energies into the resonance-pronged device to form hyperagonal objects for the purposes of liminal travel between the planar membranes requires certain magnitudes of resonance power. Such is the frustration of many an arcanist, and tragic is the irony felt in the heart of the forward thinking and eager scholars among us. All too often such a magnitude of intensity of the desired location’s planar energies could only ever be emanating, and indeed flooding out of a portal-tear itself within such thinner membranous places and knot-conjunctions of the planes, which naturally renders such devices redundant in the first place. How then, can the technician suffuse his material components for more convenient and repeatable liminal travel through the planar limen?