# Modropo (City of Savages in Common) - home of the Salizenites

**Location:**  several days travel or so south of the "thumb" mountain across the river. There is a separate plateau that the city is built on top of. A separate stream runs from this mountain as a tributary and lands flows into the main river.  
**Notable Entrances:**  The main entrance (guarded, reminiscent of ape atol) and the tunnels on the side of the mountain. 
**Appearance:**  On top the plataeu exists a large area that has been surfaced mined for jewels and precious metals. Their structures actually look beautiful. Talented Mason work, gilded artwork on buildings. The perimeter is a palisade wall, in some areas, construction has begun for greater fortication using stone but the work is unfinished or abandoned. Atop the plateau at the far reaches of the city lies a large temple and in front of that temple is a slab and a huge pit. The pit is deep enough to where light cannot reach the bottom. Noises and stench occasionally waft to the top. The bottom of the pit is reached by one of the mined tunnels and is a lair to the sirenic demon who has latched istelf to the fungal network. Some additional mining and tunneling has been done in the pit and in some areas reach the cliff, creating "entrances". The most accessible parts of the city are heavily guarded by armored jungle people... they wear plate armor that looks pretty mobile (similar to football gear) with leather underneath and gold trimming. The main entrance is actually split by 2 walls and is watched by longbowman. Similar to ape atol. The stripped areas that have already been mined have been repurposed for farming and the place actually looks healthy and grown.   
**Rulers:**  Ozat (King), Salizen disguised as one of them going by the name Relka, Religious leader (high priest) Tonoc
**Culture:**   Oddly technologically proficient at mining. Sacrificial religion. There is peace, but they are fearful of Talona, but worship her because she offers immunity to poisons and disease.  
**Notable Sites:**  The temple with the pit, King's palace, the strip mined area, the mining tunnel system.